Dry weather prevailed over most parts of the southern ASEAN region today, except over the northern parts of Sumatra where some showers were observed. Scattered hotspots were detected in Kalimantan and Sumatra while few hotspots were detected elsewhere in the southern ASEAN region. Moderate transboundary smoke haze was observed to cover parts of Peninsular Malaysia, Singapore and the northwestern parts of Borneo. Moderate to dense smoke plumes were also observed to emanate from hotspot clusters detected in large parts of Kalimantan, as well as the central and southern parts of Sumatra. Many air quality stations in Borneo, Sumatra, Singapore and some parts of Peninsular Malaysia are reporting Unhealthy to Hazardous levels. The full extent of the hotspot situation could not be determined due to obscuration by thick smoke haze and cloud cover. The smoke haze situation at some parts of the region could not be fully determined due to cloud cover. Showers prevailed over most parts of the northern ASEAN region, except over the central and eastern parts of the Mekong sub-region where it was relatively drier. Scattered hotspots were detected in the central parts of Viet Nam, with slight to moderate smoke plumes observed to emanate from hotspot clusters in the region.

Weather and Haze Outlook: In the coming days, dry conditions are expected over many parts of the southern ASEAN region, except over the northern and central parts of Sumatra, Peninsular Malaysia and parts of Borneo where showers are forecast. The hotspot and smoke haze situation may improve in areas experiencing showers but also continue to stay elevated in areas experiencing prolonged periods of dry weather, with a continued risk of transboundary haze occurrence. The prevailing winds over the southern ASEAN region are forecast to blow from the east to southeast. On the other hand, wet weather is expected to persist over the northern ASEAN region, which helps to keep the hotspot and smoke haze situation subdued. The northern ASEAN region is expected to remain wet, which should keep the hotspot activity low. The prevailing winds over the northern ASEAN region are forecast to be variable in direction.