Dry conditions continued over many parts of the southern ASEAN region today, except for showers over parts of Peninsular Malaysia, and the northern parts of Borneo and Sumatra. Scattered to widespread hotspots were detected in Kalimantan, Sulawesi, and the southern and central parts of Sumatra, while few hotspots were detected elsewhere in the southern ASEAN region. Moderate to dense transboundary haze was observed over Kalimantan, Sumatra, Peninsular Malaysia, Singapore, as well as the southern parts of Viet Nam and Cambodia. Moderate smoke plumes were also observed in Central and North Sulawesi. Many air quality stations in Sumatra and Kalimantan recorded Unhealthy to Hazardous levels, while air quality stations in areas affected by transboundary haze recorded Moderate to Unhealthy levels. The full extent of the smoke haze situation could not be determined due to cloud cover, while the hotspot situation could be obscured by clouds and thick smoke haze. Showers prevailed over the northern ASEAN region. A few hotspots were detected in Viet Nam, but no significant smoke plumes were observed to emit from hotspots in the region.

Weather and Haze Outlook: Over the next few days, dry conditions are forecast over many parts of the southern ASEAN region, apart from the northern parts of Peninsular Malaysia, Sumatra and the northern and central parts of Borneo, where showers are expected. The hotspot and smoke haze situation may improve in areas experiencing showers, but is expected to stay elevated in fire-prone regions experiencing prolonged dry conditions, with a continued risk of severe transboundary haze occurrence. The prevailing winds over the southern ASEAN region are expected to blow from the southeast to southwest, except over the northern parts of Borneo, where the winds are forecast to blow from the southwest to northwest. Meanwhile, wet weather is forecast to continue over the northern ASEAN region. The hotspot and smoke haze situation over the region is expected to remain subdued. The prevailing winds over the Mekong sub-region are forecast to blow mainly from the southwest to northwest, except over the northern part of Viet Nam, where winds are expected to blow from the southeast to south. The winds over the Philippines are forecast to be variable in direction.