Dry conditions continued over many parts of the southern ASEAN region today, except over the northeastern parts of Borneo, the northern and central parts of Sumatra, as well as Peninsular Malaysia, where showers were observed. Clusters of scattered hotspots were detected in West, Central and South Kalimantan, as well as the southern and central parts of Sumatra. Few hotspots were detected elsewhere in the southern ASEAN region. Moderate to dense transboundary smoke haze was observed in West Kalimantan, drifting northwards into the western parts of Sarawak. Moderate to dense smoke plumes were also observed in other parts of Kalimantan as well as the central and southern parts of Sumatra. Several air quality stations in West and Central Kalimantan, the western parts of Sarawak, the western parts of Peninsular Malaysia, and the southern and central parts of Sumatra recorded Unhealthy to Very Unhealthy levels. The full extent of the hotspot and smoke haze situation in the region could not be determined due to cloud cover. Wet and cloudy conditions continued over the northern ASEAN region, with heavier showers over the northern parts of Viet Nam. A few hotspots were detected mainly in parts of Viet Nam and the central parts of Thailand, but no significant smoke plumes were observed.

Weather and Haze Outlook: Over the next few days, dry conditions are forecast over many parts of the southern ASEAN region, apart from parts of Peninsular Malaysia, the western coastal and northern parts of Sumatra, and the northern parts of Borneo, where showers are expected. The hotspot and smoke haze situation is expected to stay elevated in fire-prone regions experiencing prolonged dry conditions, with a risk of transboundary haze occurrence. The prevailing winds over the southern ASEAN region are expected to blow from the southeast to southwest. Meanwhile, wet weather is expected to continue over the northern ASEAN region. The hotspot and smoke haze situation over the region is expected to remain subdued. The prevailing winds over the northern ASEAN region are forecast to blow mainly from the southwest.