Dry weather persisted over most parts of the southern ASEAN region today, except over the northeastern parts of Borneo and parts of Peninsular Malaysia where some showers were observed. Scattered to widespread hotspots were detected mainly in Kalimantan and the southern and central parts of Sumatra, while few hotspots were detected elsewhere in the southern ASEAN region. Moderate to dense transboundary smoke plumes were observed emanating from hotspot clusters in West Kalimantan, drifting northwards into the western parts of Sarawak. Moderate to dense smoke plumes were observed to emanate from hotspots clusters detected in many parts of Kalimantan, as well as the central and southern parts of Sumatra. Several air quality stations in West and South Kalimantan, the central and southern parts of Sumatra, as well as the western parts of Peninsular Malaysia and Sarawak recorded Unhealthy to Hazardous levels. The full extent of the hotspot and smoke haze situation in the region could not be determined due to cloud cover. Showers prevailed over the northern ASEAN region today, except over the central parts of the Mekong sub-region where it was relatively drier. Few to isolated hotspots were detected in Thailand but no significant smoke plumes were observed.

Weather and Haze Outlook: In the coming days, dry conditions are expected over most parts of the southern ASEAN region, except over the northern parts of Borneo and Peninsular Malaysia, as well as northern and western parts of Sumatra where showers are forecast. The hotspot and smoke haze situation may continue to escalate in areas experiencing prolonged periods of dry weather, with a continued risk of transboundary haze occurrence. The prevailing winds over the southern ASEAN region are forecast to blow from the southeast to southwest. On the other hand, wet weather is expected to persist over the northern ASEAN region, which helps to keep the hotspot and smoke haze situation subdued. The prevailing winds over the northern ASEAN region are forecast to blow from the southwest to west.