Dry weather prevailed over many parts of the southern ASEAN region today, except for some showers over parts of Peninsular Malaysia, and the northern parts of Borneo and Sumatra. Widespread hotspots were detected in Kalimantan while isolated to scattered hotspots were detected in the southern and central parts of Sumatra and parts of Sulawesi. Few hotspots were detected elsewhere in the southern ASEAN region. Moderate to dense transboundary haze was observed over the northern parts of Borneo. Moderate to dense smoke plumes were also observed over large parts of Kalimantan, and the southern and central parts of Sumatra. Many air quality stations in Borneo recorded Unhealthy to Hazardous levels, while several air quality stations in the southern and central parts of Sumatra recorded Unhealthy levels. The full extent of the smoke haze situation could not be determined due to cloud cover, while the hotspot situation could be obscured by clouds and thick smoke haze. Wet and cloudy conditions continued over the northern ASEAN region today. Hotspot and smoke haze activities remained subdued.

Weather and Haze Outlook: Over the next few days, dry conditions are forecast to continue over many parts of the southern ASEAN region, apart from Peninsular Malaysia, the southeastern parts of Sumatra, and the northern parts of Borneo, where showers are expected. The hotspot and smoke haze situation may improve in areas experiencing showers, but is expected to stay elevated in fire-prone regions experiencing prolonged dry conditions, with a continued risk of severe transboundary haze occurrence. The prevailing winds over the southern ASEAN region are expected to blow from the southeast to south. Meanwhile, showers are forecast over the northern ASEAN region, which is expected to keep the hotspot and smoke haze situation over the region subdued. The prevailing winds over the northern ASEAN region are forecast to be variable in direction, except over the southern and central parts of the Philippines, where winds are expected to blow mainly from the west-southwest to west-northwest.