Dry conditions were observed over many parts of the southern ASEAN region today except for a few showers in the northern and central parts of Borneo, as well as the northern parts of Sumatra and Peninsular Malaysia. Isolated hotspots were detected in the southern and central parts of Sumatra and also the southern and eastern parts of Kalimantan. A few hotspots were detected in Sarawak, Peninsular Malaysia, Java, Sulawesi, and the Lesser Sunda Islands. Moderate to dense smoke haze was observed to drift northeast from Kalimantan into parts of Sarawak, Sabah and Brunei. Moderate to dense smoke plumes were observed in North and East Kalimantan, as well as the central and southern parts of Sumatra. Moderate smoke haze was also observed in Singapore, the southern parts of Peninsular Malaysia and the eastern parts of Java. Many air quality stations in Borneo are reporting Unhealthy to Hazardous levels, while some air quality stations in Sumatra, Singapore and southern Peninsular Malaysia are reporting Unhealthy levels. The full extent of the hotspot situation could not be determined due to obscuration by thick smoke haze. - Meanwhile, in the northern ASEAN region, showers were observed. A few hotspots were detected in Thailand and Viet Nam but no significant smoke plumes were observed.

Weather and Haze Outlook: In the coming days, dry conditions are expected to prevail over many parts of the southern ASEAN region except for the northern parts of Sumatra and Peninsular Malaysia, parts of Sulawesi and the central parts of Borneo where some showers are forecast. The hotspot and haze situation over the region is expected to remain escalated in areas facing prolonged dry conditions, with a continued risk of severe transboundary haze occurrence. The prevailing winds over the southern ASEAN region are forecast to blow from the southeast or south. - For the northern ASEAN region, wet weather is forecast to continue and the hotspot and haze situation is expected to remain subdued. The prevailing winds over the northern ASEAN region are forecast to blow from the southwest to west.