Dry conditions prevailed over many parts of the southern ASEAN region today, except for showers mainly over the northern parts of Sumatra and Peninsular Malaysia. Widespread hotspots were detected in Kalimantan while isolated hotspots were detected in Sulawesi, and the southern and central parts of Sumatra. A few hotspots were detected mainly in the central parts of Sarawak and the eastern parts of Java. Moderate to dense transboundary smoke plumes were observed in West Kalimantan, drifting northwards into the western parts of Sarawak. Moderate to dense smoke haze was also observed in large parts of Kalimantan, the central parts of Sarawak, and the central and southern parts of Sumatra. Several air quality stations in West Kalimantan, the western and central parts of Sarawak, the western parts of Peninsular Malaysia, and the southern and central parts of Sumatra recorded Unhealthy to Hazardous levels. The full extent of the hotspot and smoke haze situation in the region could not be determined due to cloud cover. Wet and cloudy conditions prevailed over the northern ASEAN region. Hotspot and smoke haze activities remained subdued.

Weather and Haze Outlook: In the coming days, dry conditions are forecast over many parts of the southern ASEAN region, apart from parts of Peninsular Malaysia and Sumatra, and the northeastern parts of Borneo, where showers are expected. The hotspot and smoke haze situation is expected to stay elevated in fire-prone regions experiencing prolonged dry conditions, with continual risk of severe transboundary haze occurrence. The prevailing winds over the southern ASEAN region are expected to blow from the southeast to southwest. On the other hand, wet weather is forecast to continue over the northern ASEAN region. The hotspot and smoke haze situation over the region is expected to remain subdued. The prevailing winds over the northern ASEAN region are forecast to blow from the southwest to west, except over the northern parts of Viet Nam, where winds are expected to blow from the west to northwest.