Dry conditions prevailed over most parts of the southern ASEAN region overnight, except for isolated showers mainly over the northern parts of Borneo and northern parts of Peninsular Malaysia. Clusters of scattered hotspots were detected in parts of Kalimantan while isolated hotspots were detected in the southern and central parts of Sumatra. Few hotspots were detected elsewhere in the southern ASEAN region. Moderate smoke haze was observed over the western and southern parts of Borneo. Moderate to dense smoke plumes were also observed in the central and southern parts of Sumatra. Several air quality stations in West Kalimantan, the western parts of Sarawak, and the southern and central parts of Sumatra recorded Unhealthy to Very Unhealthy levels. The full extent of the hotspot and smoke haze situation in the region could not be determined due to cloud cover. Wet weather and cloudy conditions continued over the northern ASEAN region overnight, with wetter conditions over the northern parts of Viet Nam under the influence of Tropical Depression Narra. Hotspot and smoke haze activities remained subdued.

Weather and Haze Outlook: Over the next few days, dry conditions are expected to continue over many parts of the southern ASEAN region, apart from the western coastal and northern parts of Sumatra, northern parts of Peninsular Malaysia, and the northern and central parts of Borneo, where showers are forecast. The hotspot and smoke haze situation may continue to escalate in fire-prone regions experiencing prolonged dry conditions, with a risk of transboundary haze occurrence. The prevailing winds over the southern ASEAN region are expected to blow from the southeast to southwest. On the other hand, wet weather is expected to continue over the northern ASEAN region with heavier showers forecast over the northern parts of Viet Nam. The hotspot and smoke haze situation is expected to remain subdued. The prevailing winds over the northern ASEAN region are forecast to blow from the southwest to west.