Dry weather prevailed over most parts of the southern ASEAN region today, except over the northern and eastern parts of Borneo, as well as the central parts of Sumatra where showers were observed. Scattered hotspots were detected in Kalimantan and Sumatra while few hotspots were detected elsewhere in the southern ASEAN region. Moderate to dense smoke plumes were also observed to emanate from hotspots clusters detected in many parts of Kalimantan and the southern parts of Sumatra. Several air quality stations in Borneo and Sumatra are reporting Unhealthy to Hazardous levels. The full extent of the hotspot situation could not be determined due to obscuration by thick smoke haze and cloud cover. The smoke haze situation at some parts of the region could not be fully determined due to cloud cover. Showers prevailed over most parts of the northern ASEAN region, except over the northern and western parts of the Mekong sub-region where it was relatively drier. Scattered hotspots were detected in the central parts of Viet Nam, with slight to moderate smoke plumes observed to emanate from hotspot clusters in the region.

Weather and Haze Outlook: In the coming days, dry conditions are expected over many parts of the southern ASEAN region, except over the northern and central parts of Sumatra, Peninsular Malaysia and the northern parts of Borneo where showers are forecast. The hotspot and smoke haze situation may improve in areas experiencing showers but also continue to stay elevated in areas experiencing prolonged periods of dry weather, with a risk of transboundary haze occurrence. The prevailing winds over the southern ASEAN region are forecast to blow from the east to south. On the other hand, wet weather is expected to persist over the northern ASEAN region, except over some parts of Viet Nam where it is forecast to be drier. Isolated hotspots and smoke plumes may develop in areas facing prolonged dry conditions. The prevailing winds over the northern ASEAN region are forecast to be variable in direction.