Dry weather prevailed over most parts of the southern ASEAN region today, except over the northern parts of Sumatra and Borneo, as well as some parts of Peninsular Malaysia where some showers were observed. Scattered to widespread hotspots were detected in Kalimantan and Sumatra while few to isolated hotspots were detected elsewhere in the southern ASEAN region. Moderate to dense transboundary smoke plumes were observed cover the northern parts of Borneo, as well as the southwestern, western and central parts of the Philippines. Moderate to dense smoke plumes were observed to emanate from hotspots clusters detected in many parts of Kalimantan, as well as the central and southern parts of Sumatra. Many air quality stations in West and Central Kalimantan, the central and southern parts of Sumatra, as well as in Sabah and Sarawak recorded Unhealthy to Hazardous levels. The full extent of the hotspot and smoke haze situation in the region could not be determined due to cloud cover. Showers prevailed over the northern ASEAN region today, except over the central parts of the Mekong sub-region. Few to isolated hotspots were detected mainly in the northern parts of Viet Nam, Thailand and Lao PDR. Slight smoke plumes were observed in the northern parts of Viet Nam.

Weather and Haze Outlook: In the coming days, dry conditions are expected over most parts of the southern ASEAN region, except over the northern parts of Peninsular Malaysia and Sumatra, as well as the central parts of Borneo where showers are forecast. The hotspot and smoke haze situation may continue to stay elevated in areas experiencing prolonged periods of dry weather, with a continued risk of severe transboundary haze occurrence. The prevailing winds over the southern ASEAN region are forecast to blow from the southeast to southwest. On the other hand, wet weather is expected to persist over the northern ASEAN region, which helps to keep the hotspot and smoke haze situation subdued. The prevailing winds over the northern ASEAN region are forecast to blow from the southwest to west.