Dry weather continued over parts of the southern ASEAN region today, except for showers mainly over the central parts of Sumatra, and parts of Peninsular Malaysia and Borneo. Scattered hotspots were detected in Kalimantan and the southern parts of Sumatra, while few hotspots were detected elsewhere in the southern ASEAN region. Moderate to dense smoke haze was observed over many parts of Kalimantan and the southern and central parts of Sumatra. Many air quality stations in Kalimantan and the southern parts of Sumatra recorded Unhealthy to Hazardous levels. The hotspot situation over Borneo could not be fully determined due to obscuration from thick smoke haze and cloud cover while the hotspot and smoke haze situation over the rest of the region could not be fully determined due to cloud cover. Wet and cloudy conditions were observed over the northern ASEAN region today. Hotspot and smoke haze activities remained subdued.

Weather and Haze Outlook: In the coming days, dry conditions are forecast to continue over parts of the southern ASEAN region, apart from Peninsular Malaysia, and the northern and central parts of Borneo and Sumatra, where showers are expected. While the hotspot and smoke haze situation may improve in areas experiencing showers, the situation is expected to stay elevated in fire-prone regions experiencing prolonged dry conditions, with a continued risk of severe transboundary haze occurrence. The prevailing winds over the southern ASEAN region are expected to blow mainly from the east or southeast, except over the northern parts of Borneo, where winds are expected to be light and variable in direction. Meanwhile, showers are forecast over the northern ASEAN region. The hotspot and smoke haze situation over the region is expected to remain subdued. The prevailing winds over the northern ASEAN region are forecast to be variable in direction, except over the eastern parts of the Mekong sub-region, where winds are expected to blow mainly from the south or southwest.