Dry conditions continued over most of the southern ASEAN region today, except for showers mainly over the northern parts of Borneo and Sumatra, and parts of Peninsular Malaysia. Clusters of isolated to scattered hotspots were detected mainly in parts of Kalimantan, and the southern and central parts of Sumatra. Few hotspots were detected elsewhere in the southern ASEAN region. Moderate to dense transboundary smoke haze was observed in West Kalimantan, drifting northwards into the western parts of Sarawak. Moderate to dense smoke plumes were also observed in other parts of Kalimantan as well as the central and southern parts of Sumatra. Slight to moderate localised smoke plumes were also observed emanating from hotspots in the southern parts of Peninsular Malaysia, the Riau Islands and Bangka-Belitung island. Several air quality stations in West Kalimantan, the western parts of Sarawak, the western parts of Peninsular Malaysia, and the southern and central parts of Sumatra recorded Unhealthy to Very Unhealthy levels. The full extent of the hotspot and smoke haze situation in the region could not be determined due to cloud cover. Showers prevailed over many parts of the northern ASEAN region, with heavier rainfall over the northern parts of Viet Nam due to the influence of Tropical Storm Narra. A few hotspots were detected mainly in the southern parts of Viet Nam, but no significant smoke plumes were observed.

Weather and Haze Outlook: In the coming days, dry conditions are forecast over many parts of the southern ASEAN region, except for parts of Peninsular Malaysia, as well as the northern and central parts of Sumatra and Borneo, where showers are expected. The hotspot and smoke haze situation may continue to escalate in fire-prone regions experiencing prolonged dry conditions, with a risk of transboundary haze occurrence. The prevailing winds over the southern ASEAN region are expected to blow from the southeast to southwest. On the other hand, showers are expected to continue over the northern ASEAN region with heavier showers forecast over the northern parts of Viet Nam. The hotspot and smoke haze situation is expected to remain subdued. The prevailing winds over the northern ASEAN region are forecast to blow from the southwest to west, except over the northern parts of Viet Nam, where winds are likely to blow from the west to northwest.