Dry conditions were observed over many parts of the southern ASEAN region today except for parts of Borneo, Java and the northern parts of Sumatra where some showers were observed. Isolated hotspots were detected in parts of Kalimantan, Sulawesi as well as the central to southern parts of Sumatra. A few hotspots were detected in Sarawak, Java and the Lesser Sunda Islands. Moderate to dense smoke plumes from southern and central Sumatra were observed to drift northwards into the western parts of Peninsular Malaysia. Moderate to dense smoke haze from parts of Kalimantan were observed to drift into parts of Sarawak. Moderate smoke plumes were also observed in Sulawesi. The hotspot count could not be fully represented due to obscuration by dense smoke plumes. Air quality stations in parts of Peninsular Malaysia, North Kalimantan, Sumatra and Sarawak are reporting Unhealthy to Very Unhealthy levels. Air quality stations in West and Central Kalimantan are reporting from Very Unhealthy to Hazardous levels. - Meanwhile, wet weather was observed over the northern ASEAN region. A few hotspots were detected in the southern parts of Viet Nam but no significant smoke plumes were observed.

Weather and Haze Outlook: Dry conditions are expected to continue over the southern ASEAN region in the coming days. However, showers are forecast over Peninsular Malaysia, the northern and central parts of Sumatra as well as the northern parts of Borneo. These showers may provide some relief to the current hotspot and smoke haze situation, however there may be still a risk of transboundary haze occurring, especially over areas facing prolonged dry conditions. The prevailing winds over the southern ASEAN region are forecast to blow from the southeast or southwest. - Widespread wet weather is forecast over the northern ASEAN region in the coming days. The hotspot and haze situation over the region is expected to remain subdued. The prevailing winds over the Mekong sub-region are forecast to be light and variable in direction while the prevailing winds over the Philippines are forecast to blow from the southeast.