Dry conditions continued over many parts of the southern ASEAN region today, except for showers over the northern parts of Peninsular Malaysia, Borneo and Sumatra. Scattered hotspots were detected in Kalimantan and the southern and central parts of Sumatra, while few hotspots were detected elsewhere in the southern ASEAN region. Moderate to dense transboundary haze was observed over the northwestern parts of Borneo. Moderate to dense smoke plumes were also observed in many parts of Kalimantan. Moderate to dense transboundary smoke haze was observed to cover the western parts of Peninsular Malaysia, and the central and southern parts of Sumatra. Many air quality stations in Borneo recorded Unhealthy to Hazardous levels, while several air quality stations in the central and southern parts of Sumatra, and the western parts of Peninsular Malaysia recorded Unhealthy levels. The full extent of the smoke haze situation could not be determined due to cloud cover, while the hotspot situation could be obscured by clouds and thick smoke haze. Showers prevailed over the northern ASEAN region. A few hotspots were detected in Viet Nam, but no significant smoke plumes were observed.

Weather and Haze Outlook: Over the next few days, dry conditions are forecast over many parts of the southern ASEAN region, apart from Peninsular Malaysia, the northern and central parts of Sumatra, and the northern parts of Borneo, where showers are expected. The hotspot and smoke haze situation may improve in areas experiencing showers, but is expected to stay elevated in fire-prone regions experiencing prolonged dry conditions, with a continued risk of severe transboundary haze occurrence. The prevailing winds over the southern ASEAN region are expected to blow from the southeast to southwest. Meanwhile, wet weather is forecast to continue over the northern ASEAN region. The hotspot and smoke haze situation over the region is expected to remain subdued. The prevailing winds over the Mekong sub-region are forecast to be variable in direction, while the winds over the Philippines are forecast to blow from mainly from the south to southwest.