Dry weather continued over parts of the southern ASEAN region today, except for showers mainly over the northern parts of Sumatra and Borneo, and parts of Peninsular Malaysia. Isolated to scattered hotspots were detected mainly in Kalimantan and the southern parts of Sumatra, while few hotspots were detected elsewhere in the southern ASEAN region. Moderate to dense transboundary smoke haze was observed over parts of Peninsular Malaysia, Singapore, Kalimantan, and the southern and central parts of Sumatra. Many air quality stations in Peninsular Malaysia, Singapore, Kalimantan and Sumatra are reporting Unhealthy to Hazardous levels. The hotspot situation over Kalimantan and parts of Sumatra could not be fully determined due to obscuration by thick smoke haze and cloud cover, while the smoke haze situation over parts of the region could not be fully determined due to cloud cover. Showers were observed over many parts of the northern ASEAN region today, except over the northern and central parts of the Mekong sub-region where relatively drier conditions were observed. Few hotspots were detected in the northern parts of Thailand and parts of Viet Nam, but no significant smoke plumes were observed.

Weather and Haze Outlook: Over the next few days, dry conditions are forecast to continue over parts of the southern ASEAN region, apart from Peninsular Malaysia, Sumatra, and the northern and central parts of Borneo, where showers are expected. While the hotspot and smoke haze situation may improve in areas experiencing showers, the situation is expected to stay elevated in fire-prone regions experiencing prolonged dry conditions, with a continued risk of severe transboundary haze occurrence. The prevailing winds over the southern ASEAN region are expected to blow mainly from the southeast to southwest, except over Borneo, where winds are expected to be light and variable in direction. Meanwhile, showers are forecast over the northern ASEAN region, except for relatively drier conditions expected over the northeastern parts of the Mekong sub-region. The hotspot and smoke haze situation over the region is expected to remain subdued. The prevailing winds over the northern ASEAN region are forecast blow mainly from the northeast to east, except over the Philippines where winds are expected to be variable in direction.