Dry conditions continued over many parts of the southern ASEAN region today, except for showers mainly over the northern parts of Sumatra and Peninsular Malaysia. Scattered to widespread hotspots were detected in Kalimantan and the southern and central parts of Sumatra, while few to isolated hotspots were detected elsewhere in the southern ASEAN region. Moderate to dense transboundary haze was observed over the northern parts of Borneo and the southwestern parts of the Philippines. Moderate to dense smoke plumes were also observed in many parts of Kalimantan, the central and southern parts of Sumatra, and the central parts of Sarawak. Many air quality stations in Kalimantan, the central and southern parts of Sumatra, as well as in Sabah and Sarawak recorded Unhealthy to Hazardous levels. The full extent of the smoke haze situation could not be determined due to cloud cover, while the hotspot situation could be obscured by both clouds and thick smoke haze. Showers prevailed over the northern ASEAN region today, except over the central parts of the Mekong sub-region where it was relatively drier. Few to isolated hotspots were detected mainly in the northern parts of Viet Nam, and the central parts of Thailand and Cambodia, but no significant smoke plumes were observed.

Weather and Haze Outlook: Over the next few days, dry conditions are forecast over many parts of the southern ASEAN region, apart from the northern parts of Peninsular Malaysia and Sumatra, and the central parts of Borneo, where showers are expected. The hotspot and smoke haze situation is expected to stay elevated in fire-prone regions experiencing prolonged dry conditions, with a continued risk of severe transboundary haze occurrence. The prevailing winds over the southern ASEAN region are expected to blow from the southeast to southwest. Meanwhile, wet weather is forecast to continue over the northern ASEAN region. The hotspot and smoke haze situation over the region is expected to remain subdued. The prevailing winds over the northern ASEAN region are forecast to blow from the southwest to west.