Dry conditions were observed over most parts of the southern ASEAN region today except for some showers over the northern parts of Borneo, Sumatra and Peninsular Malaysia. Clusters of scattered hotspots were detected in the southern parts of Kalimantan, while isolated hotspots were detected in southern Sumatra, Java, Sulawesi and the Lesser Sunda Islands. Moderate smoke plumes were observed to emanate from hotspots in southern Sumatra. Moderate to dense smoke plumes from Kalimantan were observed to drift towards western Sarawak and the southern parts of the Philippines. Air quality stations in southern and central Sumatra, parts of Kalimantan, western Sarawak, parts of Peninsular Malaysia and the southern parts of Philippines are reporting from Unhealthy to Hazardous. The full hotspot and smoke haze situation could not be determined due to cloud cover over parts of the region. Meanwhile, widespread wet weather was observed over the northern ASEAN region. A few hotspots were detected in central Viet Nam but no significant smoke plumes were observed.

Weather and Haze Outlook: Over the next few days, dry conditions are forecast to continue over the southern parts of Kalimantan and Sumatra as well as parts of Java, Sulawesi, and the Lesser Sunda Islands. While showers over other parts of Sumatra can suppress hotspot and smoke haze activities, areas still facing prolonged dry conditions can lead to escalated hotspot and smoke haze activities, with a risk of transboundary smoke haze. The prevailing winds over the southern ASEAN region are forecast to blow from the east or southeast, while winds over areas close to the Equator are forecast to be light and variable in direction. For the northern ASEAN region, wet weather is forecast to continue and the hotspot and haze situation over this region is expected to remain subdued. The prevailing winds in the Mekong sub-region are forecast to be light and variable in direction while winds over the Philippines are forecast to blow from the west.