Dry weather prevailed over many parts of the southern ASEAN region today, except for showers over parts of Peninsular Malaysia, and the northern parts of Borneo and Sumatra. Scattered hotspots were detected in the southern and central parts of Sumatra and the southern coast of Kalimantan, while few hotspots were detected elsewhere in the southern ASEAN region. Moderate to dense transboundary haze was observed over Sumatra, Peninsular Malaysia and Singapore. Moderate to dense smoke haze was also observed in parts of Kalimantan. Many air quality stations in Sumatra, Borneo and Peninsular Malaysia recorded Unhealthy to Hazardous levels. The full extent of the hotspot and smoke haze situation over Borneo could not be determined due to cloud cover. Wet and cloudy conditions prevailed over the northern ASEAN region today. A few hotspots were detected in parts of Myanmar and Thailand, and the southern and central parts of Viet Nam. Slight smoke plumes were observed over the central part of Viet Nam.

Weather and Haze Outlook: In the coming days, dry conditions are forecast to continue over many parts of the southern ASEAN region, apart from Peninsular Malaysia, as well as the northern and central parts of Sumatra and Borneo, where showers are expected. The hotspot and smoke haze situation may improve in areas experiencing showers, but is expected to stay elevated in fire-prone regions experiencing prolonged dry conditions, with a continued risk of severe transboundary haze occurrence. The prevailing winds over the southern ASEAN region are expected to blow from the southeast to southwest. Meanwhile, showers are forecast to continue over the northern ASEAN region. The hotspot and smoke haze situation over the region is expected to remain subdued. The prevailing winds over the northern ASEAN region are forecast to be light and variable in direction, except over the southern and central parts of the Philippines, where winds are expected to blow mainly from the southwest or west.