Dry weather prevailed over most parts of the southern ASEAN region today, except over the northern and eastern parts of Borneo, as well as the northern parts of Sumatra and Peninsular Malaysia where showers were observed. Scattered hotspots were detected in Kalimantan and Sumatra while few hotspots were detected elsewhere in the southern ASEAN region. Moderate transboundary smoke haze was observed to cover parts of Peninsular Malaysia, Singapore and the southern and central parts of Sumatra. Transboundary moderate to dense smoke plumes were also observed to cover many parts of Kalimantan and Sarawak. Several air quality stations in Borneo and Sumatra are reporting Unhealthy to Hazardous levels, while some air quality stations in Peninsular Malaysia and Singapore are reporting Unhealthy levels. The full extent of the hotspot situation could not be determined due to obscuration by thick smoke haze and cloud cover. The smoke haze situation at some parts of the region could not be fully determined due to cloud cover. Showers prevailed over most parts of the northern ASEAN region, except over the northern and western parts of the Mekong sub-region where it was relatively drier. Few to isolated hotspots were detected in the central parts of Viet Nam and Thailand, with slight to moderate smoke plumes observed to emanate from hotspots in the central parts of Viet Nam.

Weather and Haze Outlook: In the coming days, dry conditions are expected over many parts of the southern ASEAN region, except over the northern and central parts of Sumatra, Peninsular Malaysia and the northern parts of Borneo where showers are forecast. The hotspot and smoke haze situation may improve in areas experiencing showers but also continue to stay elevated in areas experiencing prolonged periods of dry weather, with a continued risk of transboundary haze occurrence. The prevailing winds over the southern ASEAN region are forecast to blow from the east to southwest. On the other hand, wet weather is expected to persist over the northern ASEAN region, except over central parts of Viet Nam where it is forecast to be drier. Isolated hotspots and smoke plumes may develop in areas facing prolonged dry conditions. The prevailing winds over the northern ASEAN region are forecast to be variable in direction.