Dry weather prevailed over most parts of the southern ASEAN region today, except over the northeastern parts of Borneo where some showers were observed. Scattered to widespread hotspots were detected in Kalimantan and Sumatra while few to isolated hotspots were detected elsewhere in the southern ASEAN region. Moderate to dense transboundary smoke plumes were observed to cover the northern parts of Borneo. Moderate to dense smoke plumes were also observed to emanate from hotspots clusters detected in many parts of Kalimantan, as well as the central and southern parts of Sumatra. Moderate smoke haze was also observed over Singapore and the southern parts of Peninsular Malaysia. Many air quality stations in Borneo are reporting Unhealthy to Hazardous levels, while several air quality stations in Sumatra, Singapore and southern Peninsular Malaysia are reporting Unhealthy levels. The full extent of the hotspot situation could not be determined due to obscuration by thick smoke haze and cloud cover. Showers prevailed over the northern ASEAN region, except over the northern parts of the Mekong sub-region where it was relatively drier. Few hotspots were detected in Thailand and Viet Nam, but no significant smoke plumes were observed.

Weather and Haze Outlook: In the coming days, dry conditions are expected over most parts of the southern ASEAN region, except over the northern parts of Peninsular Malaysia and Sumatra, as well as some parts of Borneo where showers are forecast. The hotspot and smoke haze situation may continue to stay elevated in areas experiencing prolonged periods of dry weather, with a continued risk of severe transboundary haze occurrence. The prevailing winds over the southern ASEAN region are forecast to blow from the southeast to southwest. On the other hand, wet weather is expected to persist over the northern ASEAN region, which helps to keep the hotspot and smoke haze situation subdued. The prevailing winds over the northern ASEAN region are forecast to blow from the southwest to west.