Dry conditions were observed over most parts of the southern ASEAN region today except for some showers over the northern parts of Sumatra and Peninsular Malaysia, as well as the northern parts of Borneo. Clusters of scattered hotspots were detected in West and South Kalimantan while isolated hotspots were detected in other parts of Kalimantan. Isolated hotspots were detected in the central and southern parts of Sumatra. In addition, a few hotspots were detected in parts of Peninsular Malaysia, Java and Sulawesi. Moderate to dense smoke haze from West Kalimatan was observed to drift north into the western and central parts of Sarawak. Moderate to dense smoke plumes were also observed other parts of Kalimantan, as well as in the central and southern parts of Sumatra. Air quality stations in West Kalimantan and parts of Sarawak are reporting Unhealthy to Very Unhealthy levels. A few air quality stations in South Sumatra are reporting Unhealthy levels. Showers were observed over the northern ASEAN region today with heavier showers by Tropical Depression Narra over the northern parts of Viet Nam. A few hotspots were detected in the southern parts of Viet Nam, but no significant smoke plumes were observed.

Weather and Haze Outlook: In the coming days, dry conditions are forecast to prevail over most parts of the southern ASEAN region except for the northern parts of Sumatra and Peninsular Malaysia as well as the northern parts of Borneo where some showers are forecast. An increased likelihood of transboundary haze can be expected due to the current escalation of the hotspot and smoke haze situation, especially over areas facing prolonged dry conditions. The prevailing winds over the region are forecast to blow from the southeast or south. Showers are forecast to continue over most parts of the northern ASEAN region with heavier showers forecast over the northern parts of Viet Nam. Meanwhile, drier conditions are forecast in other areas of Viet Nam. Hotspots and localized smoke plumes may emerge in these drier areas, however the overall hotspot and haze situation is forecast to remain subdued. The prevailing winds over the northern ASEAN region are forecast to blow mainly from the southwest.